---
layout: "consul"
page_title: "Provider: Consul"
sidebar_current: "docs-consul-index"
description: |-
  Consul is a tool for service discovery, configuration and orchestration. The Consul provider exposes resources used to interact with a Consul cluster. Configuration of the provider is optional, as it provides defaults for all arguments.
---

# Consul Provider

[Consul](https://www.consul.io) is a service networking platform which provides
service discovery, service mesh, and application configuration capabilities.
The Consul provider exposes resources used to interact with a
Consul cluster. Configuration of the provider is optional, as it provides
reasonable defaults for all arguments.

Use the navigation to the left to read about the available resources.

~> **NOTE:** The Consul provider should not be confused with the [Consul remote
state backend][consul-remote-state-backend], which is one of many backends that
can be used to store Terraform state. The Consul provider is instead used to
manage resources within Consul itself, such as adding external services or
working with the key/value store.

[consul-remote-state-backend]: /docs/backends/types/consul.html

## Example Usage

```hcl
# Configure the Consul provider
provider "consul" {
  address    = "demo.consul.io:80"
  datacenter = "nyc1"
}

# Access a key in Consul
data "consul_keys" "app" {
  key {
    name    = "ami"
    path    = "service/app/launch_ami"
    default = "ami-1234"
  }
}

# Use our variable from Consul
resource "aws_instance" "app" {
  ami = data.consul_keys.app.var.ami
}
```

## Compatibility

The Consul Terraform provider uses features of the latest version of Consul.
Some resources may not be supported by older versions of Consul.

The known compatibility between this provider and Consul is:

| Terraform provider version | Consul version |
| -------------------------- | -------------- |
| 2.22.0                     | >= 1.19.0      |
| 2.21.0                     | >= 1.17.0      |
| 2.20.0                     | >= 1.17.0      |
| 2.19.0                     | >= 1.17.0      |
| 2.18.0                     | >= 1.16.0      |


<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `address` (String) The HTTP(S) API address of the agent to use. Defaults to "127.0.0.1:8500".
- `auth_jwt` (Block List, Max: 1) Authenticates to Consul using a JWT authentication method. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--auth_jwt))
- `auth_login_aws` (Block List, Max: 1) Login to Consul using the AWS IAM auth method (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--auth_login_aws))
- `ca_file` (String) A path to a PEM-encoded certificate authority used to verify the remote agent's certificate.
- `ca_path` (String) A path to a directory of PEM-encoded certificate authority files to use to check the authenticity of client and server connections. Can also be specified with the `CONSUL_CAPATH` environment variable.
- `ca_pem` (String) PEM-encoded certificate authority used to verify the remote agent's certificate.
- `cert_file` (String) A path to a PEM-encoded certificate provided to the remote agent; requires use of `key_file` or `key_pem`.
- `cert_pem` (String) PEM-encoded certificate provided to the remote agent; requires use of `key_file` or `key_pem`.
- `datacenter` (String) The datacenter to use. Defaults to that of the agent.
- `header` (Block List) A configuration block, described below, that provides additional headers to be sent along with all requests to the Consul server. This block can be specified multiple times. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--header))
- `http_auth` (String) HTTP Basic Authentication credentials to be used when communicating with Consul, in the format of either `user` or `user:pass`. This may also be specified using the `CONSUL_HTTP_AUTH` environment variable.
- `insecure_https` (Boolean) Boolean value to disable SSL certificate verification; setting this value to true is not recommended for production use. Only use this with scheme set to "https".
- `key_file` (String) A path to a PEM-encoded private key, required if `cert_file` or `cert_pem` is specified.
- `key_pem` (String) PEM-encoded private key, required if `cert_file` or `cert_pem` is specified.
- `namespace` (String)
- `scheme` (String) The URL scheme of the agent to use ("http" or "https"). Defaults to "http".
- `token` (String, Sensitive) The ACL token to use by default when making requests to the agent. Can also be specified with `CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` or `CONSUL_TOKEN` as an environment variable.

<a id="nestedblock--auth_jwt"></a>
### Nested Schema for `auth_jwt`

Required:

- `auth_method` (String) The name of the auth method to use for login.

Optional:

- `bearer_token` (String) The bearer token to present to the auth method during login for authentication purposes. For the Kubernetes auth method this is a [Service Account Token (JWT)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens).
- `meta` (Map of String) Specifies arbitrary KV metadata linked to the token. Can be useful to track origins.
- `use_terraform_cloud_workload_identity` (Boolean) Whether to use a [Terraform Workload Identity token](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/dynamic-provider-credentials/workload-identity-tokens). The token will be read from the `TFC_WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_TOKEN` environment variable.


<a id="nestedblock--auth_login_aws"></a>
### Nested Schema for `auth_login_aws`

Required:

- `auth_method` (String) The name of the Consul auth method to use for login.

Optional:

- `aws_access_key_id` (String) The AWS access key ID.
- `aws_iam_endpoint` (String) The IAM endpoint URL.
- `aws_profile` (String) The name of the AWS profile.
- `aws_region` (String) The AWS region.
- `aws_role_arn` (String) The ARN of the AWS Role to assume. Used during STS AssumeRole
- `aws_role_session_name` (String) Specifies the name to attach to the AWS role session. Used during STS AssumeRole
- `aws_secret_access_key` (String, Sensitive) The AWS secret access key.
- `aws_session_token` (String, Sensitive) The AWS session token.
- `aws_shared_credentials_file` (String) Path to the AWS shared credentials file.
- `aws_sts_endpoint` (String) The STS endpoint URL.
- `aws_web_identity_token_file` (String) Path to the file containing an OAuth 2.0 access token or OpenID Connect ID token.
- `bearer_token` (String, Sensitive) Pre-computed bearer token to use for login. If not provided, the provider will generate one using AWS credentials.
- `meta` (Map of String) Specifies arbitrary KV metadata linked to the token. Can be useful to track origins.
- `namespace` (String) The Consul namespace to authenticate to.
- `partition` (String) The Consul admin partition to authenticate to.
- `server_id_header_value` (String) The Consul Server ID header value to include in the STS signing request. This must match the ServerIDHeaderValue configured in the Consul auth method.


<a id="nestedblock--header"></a>
### Nested Schema for `header`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the header.
- `value` (String) The value of the header.

## Environment Variables

All environment variables listed in the [Consul environment variables](https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/index.html#environment-variables)
documentation are supported by the Terraform provider.
