---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "consul_acl_token Resource - terraform-provider-consul"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The consul_acl_token resource writes an ACL token into Consul.
---

# consul_acl_token (Resource)

The `consul_acl_token` resource writes an ACL token into Consul.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "consul_acl_policy" "agent" {
  name  = "agent"
  rules = <<-RULE
    node_prefix "" {
      policy = "read"
    }
    RULE
}

resource "consul_acl_token" "test" {
  description = "my test token"
  policies    = [consul_acl_policy.agent.name]
  local       = true
}

# or explicitly set the `accessor_id`

resource "random_uuid" "test" {}

resource "consul_acl_token" "test_predefined_id" {
  accessor_id = random_uuid.test_uuid.result
  description = "my test uuid token"
  policies    = [consul_acl_policy.agent.name]
  local       = true
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `accessor_id` (String) The uuid of the token. If omitted, Consul will generate a random uuid.
- `description` (String) The description of the token.
- `expiration_time` (String) If set this represents the point after which a token should be considered revoked and is eligible for destruction.
- `local` (Boolean) Flag to set the token local to the current datacenter.
- `namespace` (String) The namespace to create the token within.
- `node_identities` (Block List) The list of node identities that should be applied to the token. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--node_identities))
- `partition` (String) The partition the ACL token is associated with.
- `policies` (Set of String) The list of policies attached to the token.
- `roles` (Set of String) The list of roles attached to the token.
- `service_identities` (Block List) The list of service identities that should be applied to the token. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--service_identities))
- `templated_policies` (Block List) The list of templated policies that should be applied to the token. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--templated_policies))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--node_identities"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node_identities`

Required:

- `datacenter` (String) Specifies the node's datacenter.
- `node_name` (String) The name of the node.


<a id="nestedblock--service_identities"></a>
### Nested Schema for `service_identities`

Required:

- `service_name` (String) The name of the service.

Optional:

- `datacenters` (List of String) Specifies the datacenters the effective policy is valid within.


<a id="nestedblock--templated_policies"></a>
### Nested Schema for `templated_policies`

Required:

- `template_name` (String) The name of the templated policies.

Optional:

- `datacenters` (List of String) Specifies the datacenters the effective policy is valid within.
- `template_variables` (Block List, Max: 1) The templated policy variables. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--templated_policies--template_variables))

<a id="nestedblock--templated_policies--template_variables"></a>
### Nested Schema for `templated_policies.template_variables`

Optional:

- `name` (String) The name of node, workload identity or service.
