---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "consul_acl_role Resource - terraform-provider-consul"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The consul_acl_role can be used to manage Consul ACL roles https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/security/acl/acl-roles.
---

# consul_acl_role (Resource)

The `consul_acl_role` can be used to manage [Consul ACL roles](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/security/acl/acl-roles).

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "consul_acl_policy" "read-policy" {
  name        = "read-policy"
  rules       = "node \"\" { policy = \"read\" }"
  datacenters = ["dc1"]
}

resource "consul_acl_role" "read" {
  name        = "foo"
  description = "bar"

  policies = [
    consul_acl_policy.read-policy.id
  ]

  service_identities {
    service_name = "foo"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the ACL role.

### Optional

- `description` (String) A free form human readable description of the role.
- `namespace` (String) The namespace to create the role within.
- `node_identities` (Block List) The list of node identities that should be applied to the role. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--node_identities))
- `partition` (String) The partition the ACL role is associated with.
- `policies` (Set of String) The list of policies that should be applied to the role. Both the policy ID or its name can be used.
- `service_identities` (Block Set) The list of service identities that should be applied to the role. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--service_identities))
- `templated_policies` (Block List) The list of templated policies that should be applied to the token. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--templated_policies))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--node_identities"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node_identities`

Required:

- `datacenter` (String) Specifies the node's datacenter.
- `node_name` (String) The name of the node.


<a id="nestedblock--service_identities"></a>
### Nested Schema for `service_identities`

Required:

- `service_name` (String) The name of the service.

Optional:

- `datacenters` (Set of String) The datacenters the effective policy is valid within. When no datacenters are provided the effective policy is valid in all datacenters including those which do not yet exist but may in the future.


<a id="nestedblock--templated_policies"></a>
### Nested Schema for `templated_policies`

Required:

- `template_name` (String) The name of the templated policies.

Optional:

- `datacenters` (List of String) Specifies the datacenters the effective policy is valid within.
- `template_variables` (Block List, Max: 1) The templated policy variables. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--templated_policies--template_variables))

<a id="nestedblock--templated_policies--template_variables"></a>
### Nested Schema for `templated_policies.template_variables`

Optional:

- `name` (String) The name of node, workload identity or service.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import consul_acl_role.read 816a195f-6cb1-2e8d-92af-3011ae706318
```
